About Cyberscope #3

There are several aspects to this production. One of them is certainly the nostalgia for the long lost days. We, as authors, witnessed the beginnings of the demo scene, the first home computers, and the age before internet, the last certainly being the most 
mysterious of them all to the new audience, the kids born after 1990's. But I doubt they will read this anyway. Then there is the feeling of unfulfillment that I, maybe I dare say we instead, carry within. The day I bought my first mc68000 assembly book is still clear in my mind, all pixels sharp as they can get. I was fed up with basic, it was cumbersome, it was slow, I saw demos, and games running with the speed of awe, and I never managed to render a dozen of lines in basic at interactive framerate. I knew there was so 
much more hiding behind the metal cover of my amiga 2000. It had to go off. And it did, but not the way I expected. While my achievements were miserable, the knowledge I gained was impressive. It was nothing like anything I did before, writing the CPU 
registers, bringing the machine down approximately 20 times an hour, was really something. But the years passed, and I couldn't manage to make anything I would be really proud of. I did render some shapes using blitter, moved images using copper and blitter, 
played with palettes, did some common water fall effects and animations. But I was never really certain of what I was doing, it seemed to me that I used a lot of cut and paste code, understanding them only partially, even when I finally posessed the 
famous Amiga H(ardware)R(eference)M(anual), the bible of our synthetic dreamworld, it wasn't good enough. I WASN'T good enough. Then came 1997, and a PC, and I boxed my amiga, by then an expanded a1200. The things became funky, I grew into a game developer, I 
wrote my first 3D engine, then another, then I did all kinds of stuff, and some 20 years later here I am with devkits, cables, soldering station, a palette of different CPU's and IoT accessories. But the old days remained unfinished. There, the unfulfillment. 
20 years ago, in 1997, we prepared a folders of texts and graphics and some .mods for our group's second diskamg, the CyberScope 2. But it got archived, never seeing the daylight. The third one is the 'why not' aspect. With browsers finally reaching some 
maturity when it comes to WebGL and js, we thought why not just take Phaser and put together a diskmag, actuallya  e-zine that runs in browser, you can access it online from any platform, and it will still remain true to the old ways, pixelish, with bitmap 
fonts and effects that resemble the old chipset caps. Last but not least - it was fun. We haven't done anything together in a while, and we used this idea as a slingshot to a higher orbit of exploration. It brought us closer together, as amiga did back in time.


